.\" (C) Copyright 2022 kj <kj@aetherlabs.io>,
.\"
.TH Aether MAIN "August 20 2022"
.SH NAME
aether \- a CLI to create and interface between different blockchains

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B aether
.RI [ command ]"..."[ options ] 
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the different
.B aether
commands and options associated with the program.
.PP
\fBaether\fP is a program let's you create MOR(servers) using LES(configurations)
.SH COMMANDS
This program and the sub-commands follow the usual GNU command line syntax, with commands
directly following the main \fBaether\fP CLI and are invokable directly from the terminal/shell
A summary of all the different commands and options is included below.
For a complete description, see the Info files.
.TP
.B init
Create an aether template.
.TP
.B run
Run a particular node must be accompanied by \fB\-n(node name)\fP which will run the node requested
.TP
.B stop

.TP
.B config

.TP
.B change

.TP
.B dump

.TP
.B check

.TP
.B status

.TP
.B create

.TP
.B purge

.TP
.B list

.TP
.B update

.TP
.B log

.TP
.B log-tail

.TP
.B help

.SH OPTIONS
This program and the sub-commands follow the usual GNU command line syntax, with options starting
with single dash (`-`) followed by the option CHAR and the argument for that option.
.TP
.B \-h
Show summary of commands and options.
.TP
.B \-e
Specifiy the enivroment file path MUST be a .conf file.
.TP
.B \-p
Specify a base path of which the execution should take place
.TP
.B \-n
Specify a node name.
.TP
.B \-b
Specify the path for the ABIS file MUST be a .json file.
.TP
.B \-r
Specify the path for the rpc file which contains the different chainIds and their WSS endpoints MUST be a .conf file
.TP
.B \-s
Specify the script name.
.TP
.B \-d
Specify the network id, more specifically the chainId for the network.
.TP
.B \-a
Specify the node address of which the invokation will be from, if there's any non-payable or view functions that requires that `msg.sender` is not a ZERO_ADDRESS
.TP
.B \-t
Specify the log type ( performance , transactions , status )
.TP
.B \-l
Specify the log length in lines ( such as tail , see tail(1) for more information )
.TP
.B \-q
Run the node quietly without logs and without consuming the current shell.
.br

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR aether-reader (1),
.BR aether-jsonifier (1).
.BR aether-configurator (1).
.BR aether-wrapper (1).
.br
